# Summary of Research Agenda
My overarching research agenda revolves around all aspects of undergraduate students' mathematical learning. At the macro learning-level, I consider how different types of educational activities (e.g., discussions, quizzes, exploratory activities, digital manipulatives) may affect student understanding. At the micro learning-level, I create models that predict how students may respond to individual questions that are used to provide automated feedback. My wide range of educational research, statistics, and programming skills has also led to productive collaborations where I act as an expert in data collection and qualitative/quantitative data analysis. I have organized my various research projects below by their funding source. 

# Funded Research Projects
## **PI**: *Machine Learning Affordances in Collegiate Mathematics Education Research*

<ins>Research Team:</ins> None

<ins>Funding Sources:</ins> Internally through ERAU-W SEED grant, 10/1/21--6/31/22. Internal funding for professional development (Certificate in Data Science). (Pending Approval) Externally through subgrant awarded from NSF grant, 10/1/23--6/31/24. Applying for NSF CAREER grant in July 2024.

<ins>Roles:</ins> All aspects of the project.

<ins>Brief Description by Year:</ins> 

**Year 1**: Initially, this project focused on developing automated feedback for traditional assignments such as homework, quizzes, and exams. After collecting data funded by the ERAU-W SEED grant, I discovered that ERAU-W students performed well (enough) on traditional assignments but exhibited elementary conceptions of key mathematical concepts such as function, variable, and vector. This lead to a re-design of the MATH 111 course to incorporate discussions that engaged students in developing more sophisticated conceptions of key mathematical concepts. 

**Year 2**: While designing a study to explore the impacts of the MATH 111 discussion redesign, I explored ways to leverage technology to improve students' mathematical conceptions through non-traditional assignments. This led to engaging in two major professional development actitives: (1) taking 5 Coursera courses to earn a certificate in Data Science and (2) attending a 5-day workshop on authoring dynamic mathematical activities through a webpage. The certificate in Data Science prepared me to incorporate Machine Learning in both my work on designing automated feedback as well as enhancing my research data management and analysis skills. The 5-day workshop on authoring dynamic mathematical activities allowed me to develop dynamic, non-traditional assignments that would incorporate the automated feedback I had previously established.

**Year 3**: To formally develop and study one of the dynamic, non-traditional assignments that I began creating as part of the workshop, I have applied for a small grant from the NSF-funded project that hosted the 5-day workshop I attended. This effort will help me prepare for the NSF Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER) grant on integrating machine learning into Collegiate Mathematics Education Research due in July 2024. The NSF CAREER grant is a highly prestigious grant that "Supports early-career faculty who have the potential to serve as academic role models in research and education and to lead advances in the mission of their department or organization" [(NSF Funding Opportunity)](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/faculty-early-career-development-program-career). I've already spoken with NSF Program Officers about the project in general and received advice to present the strongest submission possible.