# Overview of Research Activity
As a researcher, my interests revolve around utilizing technology to improve undergraduate education. Before starting at ERAU, I began using programming langauges to build automated student-to-expert interactions that are critical to improving student learning. I have since expanded my computer skills to include machine learning through a 5-course Coursera specialization. I am now uniquely positioned as a multi-disciplinary expert in mathematics, mathematics education, and data science. 

At the macro learning-level, I study how different types of educational activities (e.g., discussions, quizzes, exploratory activities, digital manipulatives) may affect student understanding. At the micro learning-level, I create models that predict how students may respond to individual questions that are then used to provide automated feedback. My wide range of educational research, statistics, and programming skills have also led to productive collaborations where I act as an expert in data collection and qualitative/quantitative data analysis to improve undergraduate learning. My active research projects reflect these varied data science skills that all revolve around improving online education for college students.

My scholarly products, compared to total expectations outlined in the COAS ERAU-W Academic Guidelines and Criteria for Tenure and Promotion to Associate Professor, are provided in a summary chart below. 

|                       | Peer-Reviewed <br>Publications | Conference <br>Presentations | Internal/External <br>Funding Proposals |
|-----------------------|:--------------:|:-------------:|:--------------------:|
| **Year 1: AY21-22**   |       3        |       5       |         2            |
| **Year 2: AY22-23**   |       3        |       2       |         2            |
| **Year 3: AY23-24**   |       1        |       4       |         3            |
| **Year 4: AY24-25**   |       6        |       9       |         3            |
| **Year 5: AY25-26**   |       3        |       5       |         4            |
|                       |                |               |                      |
| **Total Activity**    |      16        |      25       |        14            | 
| **Expectation**       |       5        |       5       |         1            |

Peer-reviewed publications were submitted to a variety of well-respected locations: national conference proceedings (9), peer-reviewed education journals (6), and as a book chapter (1). Presentations primiarly took place at national or international conferences (19), though I also presented at ERAU-hosted local and regional events (6) and was invited to talk about my research at 3 other universities as part of seminar series on 4 different occasions. I have had moderate success with external funding: I have been a co-PI on successful NSF grants (2) and subawards attached to NSF grants (1) while also being PI (2) and co-PI (1) on unsuccessful external grants. [UPDATE when 4 pending grants are set] I have had stellar success with internal funding: I have been PI (2) and co-PI (2) on successful college-level (3) and university-level (1) internal grants. 

Given the numerous successful funding proposals I have been a part of associated with different research projects and collaborators, I have organized my research experiences by topic and summarized how they fit within my research agenda. 

## Generative AI in Education
Generative AI became a massive disruption to education, especially online education, in early 2023. I have since become increasingly involved in research on Generative AI's impact in education. This is critical to ERAU's Strategic Initiative <!-- Add specific language linking this to a strategic initative -->

**Generative AI Discussion Feedback**
In Fall 2023, Alex Rister organized a cohort of faculty from various COAS-W departments to investigate the extent to which Generative AI could provide feedback to student discussion responses. The team was awarded an internal grant and collected data from several courses. As part of this project, I contributed to 1 national conference presentation, 1 local conference presentation, 1 accepted journal article, and 1 under review journal article. 

**Geneartive AI in Writing Tasks**
In Fall 2024, I began working with Emily Dux Speltz on Generative AI use in both academic and professional writing. We received an ERAU FIRST grant in Spring 2025 through which we have interviewed professionals and students after first recording their use of Generative AI to complete a professional or educational writing task. As part of this project, I have contributed to coordinating the 3 student research assistants on the grant, 1 international conference presentation, and 1 national conference presentation. My prior research with Meghan Velez (University of Central Florida) has also led to a cross-instutition NSF grant submission between UCF, ERAU, and USF to conduct a longitudinal study on student use of Generative AI in writing assignments. [one last sentence when result of grant is known]. <!-- MORE HERE -->

**Generative AI in Mathematics Education**
As part of my responsibilities as chair of the Mathematical Association of America (MAA) Subcommittee on Technology in Mathematics Education, I have advised various MAA committees on the potential impacts of Generative AI in mathematics education. This has led me to lead the submission of an external Spencer Grant with MAA that would create an invite-only conference to discuss and spearhead research on Geneartive AI in Mathematics Education. After this grant was declined, we submitted it to NSF and it was awarded. The conference took place in June 2026 and [more about this when it happens]. <!-- MORE HERE -->

## Educational Activities in Online STEM Education
While Generative AI has tasks it can do well (summarizing materials, translating languages, and small-scale coding tasks), it is not yet capable of providing nuanced feedback to student work without error. Thus I have been exploring alternative machine learning methods to detect patterns in student thinking and provide automated feedback. This has led to two threads of related activity: creating autonomous educational assessments for student learning and autonomously evaluating assessments for instructor review. 

**Autonomous Feedback to Students**
Before joining ERAU-W, I created a mastery-based College Algebra course at the University of Florida. Unlike a traditional course where content is presented on a schedule regardless of a student's performance, mastery-based courses have students focus on a small number of learning objectives until they display mastery, then allow the student to continue on to new learning objectives. In fields such as mathematics where learning material compounds on itself, allowing students to focus on foundational topics before moving on to advanced topics based on those foundations improves overall student outcomes in courses and improves understanding of material for future courses. Mastery-based courses are not common as they require creating, grading, and providing feedback for numerous similar assignments that all measure the same learning objectives. My previous work focused on identifying patterns of student thought for 80+ learning objectives in College Algebra, automating those patterns of thought per question, and providing automated feedback by detecting if students responded based on a pre-identified pattern of thought. For a simplified example, if a math question asked a student to solve some quadratic equation, the program would in parallel solve the problem correctly AND implement mechanical or conceptual issues that students in past semesters displayed. This work was published in 2023 but foregrounds my research in autonomous feedback in educational activities. 

I continued this research upon joining ERAU-W and received a SEED grant in Fall 2021 to investigate student thinking in ERAU-W's College Algebra course. After conducting student interviews, it was clear that students could earn high grades in the online exams but could not explain any underlying mathematical concepts in a coherent manner. Since I could not implement a mastery-based course at ERAU, I began exploring alternative assessments that could be scientifically studied to see if they improved student's conceptual understanding of mathematics in these online courses. In Spring 2023 I led another internal SEED grant with Karen Keene and Zachary Reed to investigate how students' conceptual understanding progressed in asychrnonous discussions in Calculus as this was a high-priority course to student. We eventually published a methodology for identifying conceptual understanding and its progression. This collaborative project was cut short after the untimely passing of Karen Keene in February 2023 though and we stopped before begining to create asynchronous discussions to scientifically study for effectiveness. These two SEED grants produced 1 book chapter, 2 conference proceedings papers, 2 national conference presentations, 1 regional confrence presentation, and 1 local conference presentation. 

In Fall 2023 I recieved a small external grant to implement a new educational technology (DOENET) to create a dynamic activity for inclusion in ERAU-W's College Algebra course. Like my prior work at UF, I identified patterns of student thinking for inclusion in a College Algebra word problem. However, I was able to leverage the dynamic capabiltiies of DOENET to display and hide content on the webpage based on how a student responded. This dynamic activity was thus able to act as a "Choose Your Own Adventure" where students would follow paths of thinking, correct or incorrect, until it prompted them to return to some juncture with additional feedback on how they could change their thinking. In collaboration with colleagues at Georgia State University (GSU), we submitted a Collaborative Proposal to NSF in Fall 2024 to develop these types of dynamic activities as well as the autonomous feedback homework type assignments for GSU's Calculus 1 courses. The proposal was reviewed as Competitive but was not funded. <!-- Result of second submission. --> This work has produced 1 journal article, 2 conference proceedings, 3 national conference presentation, and 2 local conference presentations.

**Autonomous Feedback to Instructors**
By creating autonomous feedback for students, one can leverage the same materials to improve how instructors use educational materials. For example with the mastery-based College Algebra course, I would create topic reports based on students' results from mastery-based assessments. This not only tracked correct/incorrect responses by learning objective and topic, but also collected unproductive patterns of thinking that were identified in their incorrect responses. These reports allowed me to provide holistic feedback on assessments without needing to review students' work to determine the feedback they needed to improve. 

My efforts with autonomous feedback to instructors led to Emily Faulconer and Beverly Wood asking me to join their NSF grant when I started at ERAU in Fall 2021. In this project I worked with undergraduate student research assistants to qualitatively code student cognitive and social moves in online discussions. We then began extracting features from student discussion posts that would allow for autonomous qualtiative coding and thus autonomous reports to instructors to provide top-level summaries of student participation in discussions. As Generative AI is quite proficient at summarizing by the end of 2024, the goal of automating qualtiative coding became moot. The project did provide insights on students' cognitive and social moves in a course though. This project was still productive overall and produced 2 journal articles, 1 conference proceeding, 2 national conference presentations, 1 invited talk, 3 white papers, and 2 editorials. 

## Data Analysis for Engineering Education Projects [supporting ERAU signature fields]
Since my expertise in data science can be applied to various fields outside of my immediate research interests, I continue to provide data science support for research projects led by ERAU-W Engineering faculty. This allows me to support <!-- ERAU Signature Research field and SIT-->

**Research Scholars Program**
In Spring 2023, I was approached by engineering faculty Robert Deters and Brent Terwilliger to act as the data scientist on their continuing submission of the Research Scholars Program. This project focuses on developing resources for supporting undergraduate research in online programs. This second stage expanded the impact to all ERAU-W students, helped develop a cross-campus Undergraduate Research minor, expanded on resources to support undergraduate research, and studied the effects of these efforts. This project produced 1 journal article under review <!-- Not in Record of Activities yet -->, 3 conference proceedings, 5 national conference presentations, 1 white paper, and 24 workshops. 

**Autonomous Curriculum Suggestions**
In Fall 2025, I was approached by engineering faculty Ghazal Barari and Robert Deters <!-- Summary of project from grant proposal. Update when we get word of rejection. -->

