<!-- As it relates to Student Course Evaluations, a narrative should be provided that recognizes student input and illustrates any trends, positive or negative, with a brief explanation. -->
# Initial Statement - Focus on Student Comments
Student evaluations are known to be faulty methods for evaluating instructor effectiveness in courses due to conscious and unconscious student biases as well as students not being subject matter nor pedagogical experts. Student evaluations do provide accurate representations of *satisfaction* with a course. Interpreted student comments can also shed light on potential issues in a course. Therefore, as long as my quantitative evaluations are above 4.5 for each question (which they have been for every course I've taught), I focus only on student comments.

# Year 1: AY21-22 Student Comments [21/22 positive, 1/22 neutral]
In my first course at ERAU-W, Math 143, student feedback on my teaching was fairly positive. Of the 4 general comments on instructor, 3 were positive and praised the meaningful feedback I provided throughout the course. The 4th comment was mixed, stating *"I felt he was more of an advisor than a teacher, if I needed assistance outside of what the course provided I would just ask him. He was very timely and conducted business appropriately and that was about it."* While the 4th comment has positive things to say, it suggests the student thought I did not provide enough teacher presence. 

In my next term, October 2021, I taught 2 sections of the same course -- Math 111. This time I focused on not only providing the meaningful feedback during discussions and on exams, but I provided additional summaries of Module topics and generally sent more announcements. Student response was overwhelmingly positve. All 10 comments regarding the instructor were positive, with many students praising my quick response to emails (5/10) and meaningful feedback (6/10). Unlike the first term, a student noted how I changed their perspective on their own mathematics ability, stating *"I used to feel like I sucked at math, but Professor Chamberlain really helped me kick that feeling through timely feedback on quizzes and assignments, and relatable discussion questions. Thanks for a great term!"* The efforts to increase announcements appeared to make a positive impact on the perspective of me as an instructor in the online course. 

The next term I taught, January 2022, was more of the same praise. All 8 comments regarding the instructor were positive, including comments like the October 2021 term where I made students feel like they could perform well. An exemplary student comment was *"The instructor was extremely fair and open to conversation regarding the coursework. He helped in any way he could be it helpful advise, tips and tricks, or simply just explaining why. He fostered a healthy learning atmosphere and made it easy to contact him if I needed help day or night. His willingness to see me succeed and genuine care reflects highly upon himself, his peers, and ERAU. Great work!"*

# Year 2: AY22-23 Student Comments [25/25 positive]
My first course in year 2 was a lower level mathematics course, Math 106. All 8 comments from students were again positive and highlighted meaningful feedback and presence in the course. While being an expert in a field is important, it is equally important to be able to share that expertise in a way that students understand. One student was explicit with my ability to make mathematics easier to understand, stating *"This professor made math come to life for me. He's a thorough teacher and communicates in a way that is understandable."*

In October 2022 I taught my first EagleVision course. Unlike many other Math EagleVision courses, the majority of the in-class time was dedicated to group work or reporting out from group work. This proved effective and appreciated by students, with 4/4 positive comments from students such as *"Mr. Chamberlain was a great help when it came to our in class sessions over eagle vision. I strongly believe that the instructor did his best using many different methods to involve the class."* and *"Professor Chamberlain was a very engaging instructor, he kept the class interesting and graded assignments on time and fair."*

January 2023 and March 2023 sections went similarly well. All 13 comments on the instructor were positive. Like previous terms, students highlighted the welcoming and encouraging teaching environment I cultivated with comments such as *"Dr. Chamberlain is very approachable with his students. Chamberlain's approachability with his students is a key aspect of his teaching style. He creates a welcoming and inclusive environment in his classroom where students feel comfortable asking questions and sharing their thoughts."* and *"Professor Chamberlain is very supportive with a student's efforts, very clear when explaining difficult topics, and (most importantly) very patient with students who are 'slower' than the schedule. I can imagine him as enlightening and effective in the classroom. I would take another course with him given the opportunity."*

# Year 3: AY23-24 Student Comments [8/8 positive]
Similar to previous terms, all student comments (8) were positive. Students commented on how I was particularly helpful through extensive feedback and communicated in a way that students understood. An exemplary student comment was *"Excellent Instructor and very helpful when needed. Engaged in the instruction and provided feedback and extra time when necessary to ensure the success of the class. It was apparent that he put the students first and made sure to guide the class when direction was not entirely understood."*